# 3. Introduction to Cybersecurity

## Practice of Cybersecurity

### Definitions

**Risk** (probability and impact)

1. Low-probability, low-impact events
2. Low-probability, high-impact events
3. High-probability, low-impact events
4. High-probability, high-impact events

**Questions you must examine**

* "How likely is it that a particular attack might happen?"
* "What would be the worst possible outcome if the attack occurs?"

**Other definitions**

* A <mark style="color:yellow;">threat</mark> poses a risk to an asset we care about protecting.
* A <mark style="color:yellow;">threat actor</mark> is a person or group of people embodying a threat.
* A <mark style="color:yellow;">vulnerability</mark> is a flaw that allows a threat to cause harm.
* An <mark style="color:yellow;">exploit</mark> is a procedure for abusing a particular vulnerability.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">To exploit</mark> a vulnerability is to perform the procedure that reliably abuses it.
* An <mark style="color:yellow;">attack surface</mark> describes all the points of contact on our system or network that _could_ be vulnerable to exploitation.
* An <mark style="color:yellow;">attack vector</mark> is a specific vulnerability and exploitation combination that can further a threat actor's objectives.

### Threat Actor List

> _In the cybersecurity industry that the attacker only needs to succeed once, while the defender must succeed every time._

* The <mark style="color:yellow;">individual malicious actors</mark> are anyone attempting to do something that they are not supposed to do that fits into this category.
* A <mark style="color:yellow;">malicious group</mark> comes in when individuals band together to form groups, they often become stronger than their individual group members.
* An <mark style="color:yellow;">insider threat</mark> is anyone who already has privileged access to a system and can abuse their privileges to attack it.
* The <mark style="color:yellow;">nation states</mark> well-financed operators of cyber attacks exist at the nation-state level within many different countries across the globe.

### Recent Breaches

* <mark style="color:yellow;">Social engineering</mark> represents a broad class of attacks where an attacker persuades or manipulates human victims to provide them with information or access that they shouldn't have.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Spearphishing</mark> targets specific individuals.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Phishing</mark> is a more general class of attack relative to spearphishing. It is usually done in broad sweeps. It is usually to try to send a malicious communication to as many people as possible.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Business Email Compromise</mark> or BEC is a phishing scam.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Ransomware</mark> is a type of malware that infects computer systems and then locks a legitimate user from accessing it properly.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Credential abuse</mark> can occur when an attacker acquires legitimate credentials, allowing them to log into machines or services that they otherwise would not be able to.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Authentication bypass</mark> can allow attackers to ignore or step around intended authentication protocols.

Solutions to prevent BEC:

* Verify the legitimacy of any request for payment, purchase, or changes to account information or payment policies in person.
* If this is not possible, verify legitimacy over the phone.
* Be wary of requests that indicate urgency.
* Carefully inspect email addresses and URLs in email communications.
* Do not open email attachments from people that you do not know.
* Carefully inspect the email address of the sender before responding.

## CIA Triad

> _**Confidentiality**: can actors who should not have access to the system or information access the system or information?_
>
> **Integrity**: c_an the data or the system be modified in some way that is not intended?_
>
> _**Availability**: are the data or the system accessible when and how they are intended to be?_

* A system is <mark style="color:yellow;">Confidential</mark> if the only people who can access it are the people explicitly permitted to do so.
* A system has <mark style="color:yellow;">Integrity</mark> if the information and functionality it stores is only that which the owner intends to store. Integrity is concerned with maintaining the accuracy and reliability of data and services.
* A system is considered <mark style="color:yellow;">Available</mark> if the people who are supposed to access it can do so. Imagine an attacker has gained access to a social media account and also posted some content of their choosing.

## Security

**Principles**

* The <mark style="color:yellow;">Least Privilege</mark> principle expresses the idea that each part within a system should only be granted the lowest possible privileges needed to achieve its task.
* The model of <mark style="color:yellow;">Zero Trust</mark> advocates for removing all implicit trust in networks and has a goal of protecting access to resources, often with granular authorization processes for every resource request.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Open Security</mark> states that the security of a system should not depend on its secrecy.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Defense in Depth</mark> advocates for adding defenses to as many layers of a system as possible, so that if one is bypassed, another may still prevent full infiltration.

**Strategies**

* 24/7 vigilance
* Threat modelling
* Table top discussions
* Continuous training on tactics, processes, and procedures
* Continuous automated patching
* Continuous supply chain verification
* Secure coding and design
* Daily log reviews
* Multiple layers of well-implemented Security Controls

**Defensive techniques**

* The idea of <mark style="color:yellow;">Shift-Left</mark> security is to consider security engineering from the outset when designing a product or system, rather than attempt to bake it in after the product has been built.
* With <mark style="color:yellow;">Shamir's Secret Sharing</mark> or SSS, we might design a system so that three different administrator authorizations are required to authorize any one administrative root access. Shamir's secret sharing scheme enables a system to split access authorization requirements between multiple systems or persons.
* [Threat modeling](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/threat\_modeling) describes taking data from real-world adversaries and evaluating those attack patterns and techniques against our people, processes, systems, and software.
* [Threat Intelligence](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/threat\_intelligence) is data that has been refined in the _context_ of the organization: actionable information that an organization has gathered via threat modeling about a valid threat to that organization's success.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Continuous Automated Patching</mark> is accomplished by pulling the upstream source code and applying it to the lowest development environment. Next, the change is tested and only moved to production if it is successful.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Continuous Supply Chain Validation</mark> occurs when people and systems validate that the software and hardware received from vendors are the expected material and that it hasn't been tampered with, as well as ensuring output software and materials are verifiable by customers and business partners.
* [Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/tactics\_techniques\_and\_procedures), or TTPs handle various scenarios to decrease incident response time.
* [Business Continuity Planning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business\_continuity\_planning) or BCP includes many other aspects such as live drill responses to situations like ransomware and supply-chain compromise. BCP extends outside of cybersecurity emergencies to include processes and procedures for natural disasters and gun violence.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Sleeper malware</mark> is software that is inactive while on a system for a period of time before it starts taking action.
* A [Software Bill of Materials](https://www.cisa.gov/sbom) or SBOM as a way to track dependencies automatically in the application build process greatly helps us evaluate supply chain tampering.
* One ephemeral encryption is [TLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport\_Layer\_Security)_,_ in which nobody but the server and the client of that specific interaction can decrypt the information (not even the administrators), and the decryption keys only exist in memory for a brief time before being discarded.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Personal Identifiable Information</mark> or PII can include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, SSNs, and other information that can be used to track down or spy on an individual person.
* [Chaos Testing](https://www.ibm.com/garage/method/practices/manage/practice\_chaotic\_testing/) is a type of BCP or DR (Disaster Recovery) practice that is often handled via automation. For example, we might leverage a virtual machine that has valid administrative credentials in the production network to cause intentional disasters from within.

## Laws

* The [Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act](https://www.cdc.gov/phlp/publications/topic/hipaa.html) or HIPPA is a United States federal law regulating health care coverage and the privacy of patient health information. It creates a set of standards for protecting patient health information called <mark style="color:yellow;">Protected Health Information</mark> or PHI. It limits the information sharing without the patient's consent. The patient can obtain a copy of their health records.
* The Security Rule describes e-PHI protection with 3 classes of safeguards:&#x20;
  * Administrative (security official, security management process, periodic assessment)
  * Physical (facility access control, device security)
  * Technical (access control, transmission security, audit abilities)
* The [Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act](https://studentprivacy.ed.gov/faq/what-ferpa) or FERPA is a United States federal law regulating the privacy of learners' education records. This law sets limits upon the disclosure and use of these records without parents' or learners' consent.
* The [Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act](https://www.fdic.gov/resources/bankers/affordable-mortgage-lending-center/glba.html) or GLBA establishes a number of requirements that financial institutions must follow to protect consumers' financial information.
* The [General Data Protection Regulation](https://gdpr.eu/what-is-gdpr/) or GDPR regulates data privacy and security in Europe.
* [Key disclosure laws](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Key\_disclosure\_law) are laws that compel the disclosure of cryptographic keys or passwords under specific conditions.
* The [California Consumer Privacy Act](https://oag.ca.gov/privacy/ccpa) or CCPA grants residents of the state certain privacy rights concerning the personal information held by for-profit businesses.

## Frameworks

* The  <mark style="color:yellow;">Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard</mark> or PCI DSS is an information security standard for organizations handling customer payment data for a number of major credit card companies.
  * <mark style="color:yellow;">Requirement 2</mark> prohibits the use of vendor-supplied defaults for system passwords and other security-related parameters.
  * <mark style="color:yellow;">Requirement 3</mark> outlines what types of credit card data can be stored and how it must be protected.
* The <mark style="color:yellow;">Center for Internet Security</mark> or CIS Controls is a set of 18 recommended controls intended to increase an organization's security posture. These controls are divided into a number of safeguards.
  * <mark style="color:yellow;">IG1</mark> is for every organization, the minimum standard for information security is meant to protect against the most common attacks.
  * <mark style="color:yellow;">IG2</mark> is for organizations that manage an IT infrastructure. It's composed of additional safeguards.
  * <mark style="color:yellow;">IG3</mark> is for organizations that manage cybersecurity experts. This module has all the safeguards.
* The <mark style="color:yellow;">National Institute for Standards and Technology</mark> Cybersecurity Framework or NIST is a collection of standards and practices designed to help organizations understand and reduce cybersecurity risk. There are 3 components:
  * The <mark style="color:yellow;">Core</mark> is a set of cybersecurity activities and outcomes. It is divided into five high-level functions that encompass a number of categories.
  * The <mark style="color:yellow;">Implementation Tiers</mark> specify the degree to which an organization's Cybersecurity practices satisfy the outcome described by the subcategories of the Framework Core. There are 4 Tiers:
    * Partial, the last degree
    * Risk-Informed
    * Repeatable
    * Adaptive
  * The <mark style="color:yellow;">Profiles</mark>&#x20;
* The <mark style="color:yellow;">MITRE ATT\&CK</mark> is meant to catalog and categorize the various ways that threat actors operate in the real world.
* The <mark style="color:yellow;">MITRE D3FEND</mark> portrays a set of best practices, actions, and methodologies employed by defenders to prevent, detect, mitigate, and react to attacks.
* The <mark style="color:yellow;">Cyber Kill Chain</mark> is a methodology to help defenders identify and defend against cyber attacks. There are 7 stages for the attack lifecycle:
  1. <mark style="color:yellow;">Reconnaissance</mark>: the attacker identifies a target and enumerates weaknesses.
  2. <mark style="color:yellow;">Weaponization</mark>: identify a method to exploit these weaknesses.
  3. <mark style="color:yellow;">Delivery</mark>: the attacker launches the attack.
  4. <mark style="color:yellow;">Exploitation</mark>: the payload is executed on the target system.
  5. <mark style="color:yellow;">Installation</mark>: the malware is installed on the system.
  6. <mark style="color:yellow;">Command & Control</mark>: use further commands with the malware.
  7. <mark style="color:yellow;">Action on Objectives</mark>: achieve the ultimate goal like theft, modification, or destruction.
* The <mark style="color:yellow;">Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program</mark> or FedRAMP provides a standardized security framework for cloud services used by the federal government.

## Career

### Attacker

* <mark style="color:yellow;">Network Penetration Tester</mark> (PEN-100, PEN-200, PEN-300) is responsible for discovering and exploiting vulnerabilities that exist in a targeted network.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Web Application Tester</mark> (WEB-100, WEB-200, WEB-300) is responsible for testing web applications for security weaknesses.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Cloud Penetration Tester</mark> (CLD-100) is responsible for performing penetration testing on cloud infrastructure.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Exploit Developer</mark> (EXP-301, EXP-312) is responsible for discovering and developing exploits for software vulnerabilities.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Vulnerability Researcher</mark> (EXP-301, EXP-312) is responsible for researching new software vulnerabilities and exploitation techniques, determining their impact, developing Proofs of Concept (PoCs), and communicating their findings to different stakeholders.

### Defender

* <mark style="color:yellow;">SOC Analyst</mark> (SOC-100, SOC-200) is responsible for monitoring, triaging, and when necessary, escalating security alerts that arise from within monitored networks.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Malware Analyst</mark> is responsible for analyzing suspected or confirmed malware samples in order to determine how they work and, ultimately, what their purpose is.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Digital Forensics Analyst</mark> (EXP-301, PEN-200, PEN-300) is responsible for investigating Cybersecurity incidents by gathering and analyzing evidence of intrusions and recovering data.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Incident Responder</mark> (SOC-100, SOC-200) is responsible for reacting to cybersecurity events.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Threat Hunter</mark> (SOC-100, SOC-200, PEN-300) is responsible for proactively searching networks and systems for Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) using the most up-to-date threat intelligence.

### Build

* <mark style="color:yellow;">Cloud Engineer</mark> is responsible for building and maintaining the cloud infrastructure.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Cloud Architect</mark> (CLD-100) is responsible for designing and overseeing the implementation of a cloud-computing strategy aligned with the business's goals and needs.
* The <mark style="color:yellow;">Developer</mark> (PEN-200, WEB-200, WEB-300) is responsible for writing computer programs which, depending on the precise role, may range from core operating system components to desktop, mobile, and web applications.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">DevSecOps</mark> (PEN-200, PEN-300, WEB-200, WEB-300, CLD-100) is an approach to software development that integrates security into all stages of the software development lifecycle, rather than postponing it to the end.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">Site Reliability Engineer</mark> or SRE (CLD-100) is responsible for ensuring and improving the availability and performance of software systems.
* <mark style="color:yellow;">System Hardener</mark> (PEN-100, PEN-200, PEN-300) is responsible for configuring systems to reduce their security risk.







